# Flight On Time Analysis for DFW

## Introduction
The motivation for this project was to analyze the causes of aircraft delay due to its importance in airport operations and air decision-making. Air travel has become a popular choice of travel for leisure and business purposes. On-time flight performance is an important factor for airlines (to maintain current customers and attract new business), for retailers (i.e. traveling sites like Expedia or Priceline), and for travelers to make appropriate desicion-making. Due to the large scope of this subject, this analysis focuses on flights from the Dallas - Fort Worth International Airport (DFW), the busiest airport in Texas and 4th busiest airport in the world, and the data used spans from January 2017 until December 2017. The data includes only domestic flights and only observations with DFW as the origin airport were extracted. The data for this analysis is available from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS).

## Results
The exploratory analysis shows that the top airlines in DFW are American, Express Jet, Spirit, United, and Delta. American Airlines has, by far, the most flights in DFW (mainly because the compnay headquarters are there). It was found that aircraft often depart after their scheduled time but arrive ahead of their arrival schedule, which means flights recover time while in the air. It was also found that the airlines with the highest percentage of delayed flight from DFW in 2017 were JetBlue, SkyWest, American, and Frontier. From the major airlines, Delta had the lowest percentage of delayed flights. A pattern in delayed flights throughout days of the week and throughout the months of the year was also discovered. Specifically, Fridays and Saturdays had the largest percentage of delayed flights while Tuesday - Thursday had the least delays. During 2017, June had the most delays in DFW and September - November had the smallest percentage of delayed flights in DFW.
