# Addiction Habits and Profiles

## Introduction
The motivation of this analysis was to look at the addiction treatment practice through the data science perspective. Using psychological traits, various analytical models were built to help determine what personality traits indicate a higher risk of substance misuse that can lead to addiction. This analysis focuses on the different interactions between 3 categories of illicit drugs (depressants, hallucinogens, and stimulants) and 7 personality traits (neuroticism, extraversion, openness to experience, agreeableness, conscientiousness, impulsivity, and sensation-seeking). The models compared for each of the 3 drug categories are logistic regression, random forest, and support vector machine models. To examine the interactions for each category a step-AIC model was used. Included in this repository is this README file and a R code file with all the analysis done for this project.

## Results
For depressants, the random forest model was the best with an error rate of 12.8% (with ntree = 2000). Using the Gini Index, the most significant personality traits were openness to experience and neuroticism. The step-AIC model achieved an error rate of 15.15%. The model shows the three main personality trait interactions for depressants are: impulsivity and sensation-seeking, neuroticism and agreeableness, and neuroticism and impulsivity. High impulsivity and high sensation-seeking observations are more likely to use depressants. High neuroticism and low agreeableness are correlated with depressant users. Finally, high impulsivity and high neuroticism are also linked with depressant users.

For hallucinogens, the logistic regression model was the best with an error rate of 13.07%. Using the Gini Index, the most significant variables outside of other drug categories were openness to experience and age. The step-AIC model had an error rate of 13.56%. The personality trait interactions that caused the largest drops in the AIC were: sensation-seeking and conscientiousness, and openness to experience and conscientiousness. Respondents with low conscientiousness together with either high sensation-seeking or high openness to experience are more likely to use hallucinogens.

For stimulants, the random forest model was the best with an error rate of 159% (with ntree = 1000). Using the Gini Index, the most significant personality traits were conscientiousness and agreeableness. The step-AIC model had an error rate of 16.9%. The three main interactions are: agreeableness and impulsivity, conscientiousness and sensation-seeking, and extraversion and agreeableness. Observations with low agreeableness and high impulsivity are more likely to be stimulant users as well as low conscientiousness and high sensation-seeking and low extraversion and low agreeableness.
